and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out my weekly email where I
share actionable B2B marketing tips
website ideas free goodies resources and
more each and every Monday to kick off
your week with a bang why not give it a
try over at businessgrowth dot emails so
joining me today I've got aimer as soon
as a head of marketing over at Bay News
Emma welcome to the show how you doing
thank you Sam I'm doing well how are you
oh good man looking forward to today's
episode we're going to be talking about
something that probably frustrates the
hell out of marketers the c-suite the
business owners is why you shouldn't
ignore your CRM something that I know
sales reps absolutely love to ignore um
in fact they'd probably rather spend
their time talking to customers ignoring
it filling out that data all day
um so yeah it should be a should be a
spice one man so first and foremost
why is why is updating a CRM why is your
CRM in general so important when it
comes to B2B and marketing
well uh I mean the option the option
rate of uh CRM is growing all the time
the amount of data in CRM is growing all
the time
um
and probably the reason is that uh com
these days you have so much data
available to use in sales and marketing
and you need a system that's able to
integrate to data providers uh marketing
automation tools uh ABM tools uh and
that's probably the biggest reason why
CRM is so popular I mean back in the day
CRM was basically this place where you
mark things you put your notes there but
I think these days crms are
uh kind of interconnected integrated
business systems that really are a
centerpiece of sales and marketing at
companies
and do you think B2B companies that
really want to scale really want to grow
can get away with the old school mindset
because still whilst I'm a marketer I
mean I I do a lot of selling as well so
I'm a kind of sales rep at heart
um as I do a lot of the deals here at
web choice and I love talking to
customers so every time CRM comes into
my mind I think oh that's the place
where the inquiries through the website
feed through that's the place where
you'll update the current status of the
latest they're like the deal flow with
the customer how far along the pipeline
it is but from what you've shared there
it sounds like we should be using it for
so much much much more
um
as a as a kind of tool do you think
businesses can get away with it just
using it like I said now or do you think
it's much more important to use it in
The Wider Focus
well of course it all depends on your
business goals uh sure if you have a
very steady business and you you don't
really need the information or want to
grow or expand then probably uh you you
can do it as you've always done but uh
we have so like
there's so many ways of doing sales and
marketing and there's this
just purely the amount of data you can
use to do different things uh it just
opens up so many possibilities and I and
also like for the sales person but
I understand if a salesperson goes to
the CRM and there's like
40 fields in the CRM like yeah that you
don't need like addresses and and and
and there's there's weird things
uh but what if a CRM could like you go
to a CRM you go you go to a company of
your account View and you only see the
most relevant things like this company
just received funding uh this company
side is let's say mid-sized company and
some other like a few few attributes
here and there that really help the
salesperson give the information uh that
they need to give sales work better so I
understand you have 40 properties there
40 fields and you don't like this okay
where's the phone number I just need the
phone number but if it has helpful
information for the salesperson then
also the salesperson can benefit a lot
from it yeah with your organization Amy
or any ones that you've kind of seen or
worked with have you had any ways in
which you've helped encourage the sales
team to update the CRM because I know
from my experience even our own team
they absolutely hate doing it and
sometimes you've just gotta knock the
Reps to get it done it's like what's the
latest I need to know what the latest is
on these deals on these leads and it's
always one of those things that'll lead
to the end of the month or the end of
the day or the end of the week
well one point of view is that maybe
sales people shouldn't update the CRM
um for example you can set up
all the sort of data enrichment parts so
that they don't need to input the basic
details there when they Prospect for new
companies all the details will be there
automatically and obviously you have
tools like gong these days that can uh
that record your sales meetings and even
transcribe them and add them to the CRM
so the point is that
maybe we should get away from this uh
mindset that it's it's only for sales
people to add information to just to
report so that the higher apps can know
what's happening within the sales team
yeah and uh just this may get a system
that helps the salesperson and also
benefits the company in knowing what's
really happening so that the companies
can be
what they call data driven
yeah yeah let's talk about this I'm sure
a lot of sales people if they are tuning
into this their eyes are probably lit up
they're like what that can actually be
done but I don't need to spend like
hours at the end of each week just
typing all this data up which is just
most of it's just mundane stuff but yeah
like you say if you can find tools like
going or similar to record those calls
and update information it's going to
save a lot of time and and hassles I'm
sure
um so why is it important that the
businesses are data driven in your
thoughts
uh probably because the uh the speed and
the scale of how how things move these
days that's that's one of the biggest
reasons uh if you're doing things
manually planning campaigns manually
it's going to take a lot of time and
sorry efficiency is the thing that we
want these days right
um but there's also a problem with that
if we talk about companies that say that
we're we're data driven
what that actually means is if you if
you take it to the it's rawest form it
means that you're you're actually
placing or making all your decisions
based on the data you have so you're
using very little intuition
and you're like basically like okay this
customer segment is growing uh so we
need to or this is a very good customer
segment for a prospect segment for us we
need to really hit and go after those
companies but yeah what happens if the
data is like 71 correct or 68 correct
and you're basing your decision on that
data you can really turn it right
against you
um interesting so this is a bit of a
tough one but in your experience for say
a B2B technology organization or B2B SAS
company Are there specific things that
you should always be measuring like are
there like five things without measuring
these you're you're basically missing
out on Revenue
five things or it could be less or it
could be more
so the things you should be measuring
based on the the CRM that are talking
about like metrics for growth or or just
like
well uh obviously like these days
lifetime value is a very important thing
I mean
I wouldn't just like
I wouldn't just rely on like how much
business do we create will we create
next quarter
but yeah also take into account that how
much how can we develop these accounts
uh you know through upselling and and
really make the lifetime value as high
as possible and obviously when you have
when you measure things on a lifetime
value you can really see you can even
base your ICP your ideal customer
profile on that what are the customers
that ultimately generate uh most Revenue
over time for us
yeah that's one
I guess the massage business ARR growth
always important uh
but I'm sure there are other ones as
well
yeah yeah so looking at lifetime values
looking at kind of how profitable or the
most profitable customers that are
currently um clients looking at annual
recurring Revenue those kind of things
and you mentioned something interesting
just now AMA you're saying you use the
percentages of data to actually make
decisions
um so tell us a bit more about like how
you how you do that and what you should
be considering and what kind of
percentage ways how a decision should be
made
well that was more like a philosophical
thought that yeah can you be like
do you want to rely on data that's just
that's that's not complete but you could
do an exercise you could look at your
CRM all the accounts or companies or
organizations that are in there
uh you can see uh like are there do you
have
industry data on industry data on all
companies or size or location is the
data complete right and uh if it's like
I mean that's easy then you could
theoretically calculate a percentage
um and then you could say like okay
we have a pretty good database we can
really calculate our our sort of uh
our Tam or our like like the market that
we can sell to yeah
and those sorts of things but that's
like more philosophical but
but that the point was there
make sure that it's clean the hair dye
is clean before you start making
decisions based on that
yeah yeah yeah and are there any ideas
because I'm a bit of a I mean I
understand data on a basic level but I'm
a bit of a noob when it comes to kind of
the finer details as maths isn't my
strong point but when you say kind of
keeping your data clean keeping it up to
date are there any kind of best
practices around that the businesses
should consider
well let's look at it from the
perspective of the sales person
it's let's say that in an optimal
situation uh the company has
defined the ideal customer profile
that's very clear we go after let's say
companies in this industry in these
locations uh roughly this size that use
might use some certain Technologies like
if you're
uh
if you're selling uh you know chat Bots
it's it's beneficial to know what kind
of chatbots uh companies use uh have
they recently received funding recently
have they have they been through mergers
and Acquisitions yeah
and where you've got all that cleared
then it's really easy to populate your
CRM with all the companies in your
target market and uh then you have
all the necessary details of each
company and then you can just split it
okay your sales team takes this bunch of
companies your sales team takes these
bunch of companies and then when the
sales people go to the CRM it's full of
they what they see is that the relevant
information that's relevant for them uh
let's say like
you're an expert on companies that have
recently gone through mergers so
you're like okay I can work with these
companies or
so kind of like starting from the
fundamentals and making sure that the
sales what the sales people see in the
CRM is relevant for them and their work
yeah yeah so it sounds like this with
getting into Now setting up a CRM for
almost like an account based marketing
play where you're working out the the
accounts that you want to tap into
whether you want your sales team to
start getting into and then putting
those details that are most important
like you say if you get targeting
companies have recently got a round of
funding
um and then there's other bits and
pieces that you want to know that might
be useful Intel when you're going out
and prospecting them cold whether that's
over the phone or email or serving
content to them or ads or things like
that
um what might be quite fun emo is if
there's like a a step-by-step play that
you'd like to do from kind of doing
those things we just mentioned or maybe
even before that really when it comes to
kind of
thinking of the key fields that you
should put in the CRM and then how you
how you build out how you map out those
ideal cloth ideal client profile
accounts and then what you do before you
pass it off to sales
so
you want me to describe the the sort of
ideal process uh yeah a recommended
process a little step by step might be
quite fun yeah
um
first of all you mentioned something
about this about ABM that sounds like an
ABM approach it probably is I I think
that
foreign
why sort of wouldn't you use and sort of
ABM type approach I mean
there's lots of definition I think if
you look at LinkedIn there's lots of
definitions of people arguing about
what's the definition of ABM but
the fact is that you can't
you can't do marketing to all the
companies in the world you your sales
people can be calling all the companies
in the world
will it be better to focus on a specific
set of accounts anyway and prioritize
them based on some sort of change that
has changed that has happened in that
company yeah let's say like they receive
funding or they just opened up a new
Branch like in Bristol for example uh
and and then there's like I have the ICP
and then I'm going to prioritize based
on when is the right time to sell to
these companies it's pretty easy if you
ask your customers sort of what was the
sort of situation that that you were
going through when you decided to buy
our service and then they started
talking and explaining things so that
gives you a lot of valuable qualitative
data doesn't always have to be uh like
massive amount of spreadsheets or data
data sheets it could just be in data is
also talking to people and recording
that
yeah yeah I like that
but it's the sort of framework well
I kind of talked about it before but you
know it starts with with the speed
definition
um and then you recognize the accounts
you have everything in your CRM you
enrich the CRM with with the accounts
you need and then you divide those
accounts to the the right sales people
and you prioritize those accounts based
on uh recent changes that has happened
uh in those in those companies and then
the Outreach Of course is uh I mean
well here at vinyl we have the same
method I mean my marketing budget
basically if you talk about ads is
mostly spent on LinkedIn and I Target
the exact same accounts as my sales
people or our sales people go after
so we have like a uh we have many ways
of approaching and
approaching the the
companies that we feel that most
benefits out of our services
yeah yeah yeah that I love that
questions so you mentioned something
like you're asking your your existing
clients what was going on when you
realized you had a problem or you
realized there's an issue you need to
fix we had this frustration and then you
you reached out to us and and you knew
that you need to fit this problem and
you need to inquire about our services
or take up our product
um how are you then leveraging that as
data like what what kind of key points
would you take from that that would then
influence the CRM data and then pass off
to sales or also influence the marketing
you put out like how do you piece those
things together
well I would do it in in batches uh I
mean if you have like a thousand
customers it's it's uh pretty difficult
to ask them but and they might not
remember but I would have a simple
process of in the onboarding OR
it actually might be too late at the
stage where where the customer basically
signs the contract okay let's let's
start this thing
then I would actually have like a
quick interview well it doesn't have to
be an interview you can just ask them it
takes five minutes to ask them a few
questions about
you know
why did they choose us were they
considering some Alternatives
um and uh but the main thing is that so
what was the sort of
what was happening in your company was
there sometimes it's not it's not
anything it's like okay the salesperson
approached me and it seemed like a good
fit so sure we need this but there's
usually some sort of pain or business
problem that they're trying to solve so
recording that as well is important and
then you can have like uh you can I
would recommend adding it uh of course
in the CRM as a field in the company or
the or the person and then at some point
it's easy to sort of export these are
the accounts we won last quarter uh and
these are the reasons why they chose us
and these were the things that the
changes that were happening within their
industry or maybe it was a like a macro
change like something happening in the
world that affected this uh and then you
can analyze it with your sales and
marketing team and use that data to
improve it
nice how do you leverage those problems
those frustrations that you get from
those interviews
so let's say there's a common pain point
that is really often coming up a lot of
customers say that that's that's the
reason when they reached out to you how
do you then use that to your advantage
well uh at least the marketing we can
change the messaging uh and obviously
because we know the companies we're
going after because we have the account
list and we're we're doing marketing to
watch the same account list and I can
see okay these are the similar companies
these are similar companies that most
likely have a similar problem problem uh
uh as these companies that just signed
with us I could change the messaging
towards those companies I can I can you
know
I can have a podcast episode about it or
do some video clips where I interview
experts or even those customers about
like the problems we solve so that is
one way of doing it and obviously
same thing for sales
um even in the initial Outreach uh you
can change the the pitch a bit to suit
this
so finding sort of lookalikes based on
Based on data you get from from current
customers and you don't
and sometimes you can ask okay how do
you find the companies from those let's
say you have like 10 000 Target accounts
how do you find like the companies that
would most likely be experiencing
similar problems well obviously
you can use company data like from an
external provider for example from Vinyl
I mean if if we take the Knight example
of the merger so we we went to a merger
last year and that it and they said the
customer says that we just went to a
merger and it caused the X and Y
problems and that's why uh we took your
uh we bought from you so then you could
look up which companies have done have
had recent mergers or opened up new
locations or anything like that so find
similarities from the prospect pool and
then change the messaging in the in
marketing and in sales to sort of suit
that
yeah yeah so it's basically
almost leverage getting this data from
from your your customers right now then
using it to your advantage looking for
how that can how those problems those
frustrations they came to you with can
then be put together in content that you
can then serve up to your focus accounts
but then you can also look for
look-alike accounts by using data by
finding companies whether they've like
you said they've just got a merger
they've just had funding or they've just
had something
similar that was the cause of this
problem to um get more customers that
are gonna basically ramp up revenue and
be profitable for just like the other
clients you just onboarded really yeah
makes sense and
yeah and over time I mean I think in in
the beginning you might have these long
answers like that you're adding to the
CRM on the company
some field there but I think over time
you'll start to see patterns
and there might be like a few
common ones yep and then it's easy to
create a pick list in the studio like
okay it was this reason and then when
you have pick lists you can easily
export or or analyze those companies
because you can just say get me these
companies correspond to this clicklist
option and then say okay these are the
200 or let's say 20 companies or 30
companies
uh or 100 companies and okay let's find
similar companies let's see what's in
common with them and and then and uh and
let's find more
easy as that
it sounds very easy but it can be but
what it actually requires is that that
uh
vigorous it has to be a rigorous and
vigorous maybe process uh like it's so
easy to forget this I mean you know as a
salesperson when you get the contract
signed asking these questions might not
be the first things in your mind because
obviously lots of things you have to
think about I'm sure maybe celebrate a
bit but uh but go to the pub then start
the project do the onboarding then ask
the questions
in the order
but it could be like if we go to like
the CRM level again how to leverage CRM
it could be that when you mark the
Eagles one it you have to answer the
questions
and you won't sort of put it won't put
the case forward until those questions
are answered so that's one way of sort
of not thinking about it letting
automation uh
handle it and uh that's that's one tip I
had one other tip but I forgot it while
I was talking maybe it will come up yeah
you might think of it in a sec but
that's that's helpful certainly for
myself and the audience so yeah we've
talked about quite a few useful ways
that you can utilize your CRM you can
work out your ideal client profile you
can hit Target accounts look for
look-alike accounts are there any other
angles that businesses that want to
scale should be thinking about utilizing
their CRM that we haven't yet covered
foreign
well we covered so many topics it's
really difficult to pinpoint uh another
one
well
maybe one fundamental thing that maybe a
fundamental thing we didn't necessarily
discuss deeper was the fact that
uh if sales and marketing are going
towards the same Target accounts uh it
would be beneficial episode of
cooperation between sales and marketing
would be very much aligned and they
would be working on the same system uh
you know sometimes you have marketing
automation systems separate from the CRM
but it should be you know Market
marketing people should be able to see
what's happening with the cases so they
get a continuous uh feedback loop so
maybe it's a it's not only for sales
people
um it should also be utilized by
marketing
it can be quite tricky right like you
mentioned there so if you've got various
marketing automation tools whether
you're using like a outbound sequencer
or you're nurturing existing clients so
you're sending these email feeds or
whatever the heck you're doing
um marketing whether it's outbound
inbound whatever
because not every tool integrates with
the same CRM do they not every tool
speaks to each other and that every tool
has a simple integration or an API or
something like that
how do you kind of manage those kind of
things because doesn't it piss your team
off when they've like got a flick
between like five six platforms every
day and then sales are trying to do
their job in Italians and check this and
those kind of things can be a headache
right
yeah
I I saw one piece of research that said
that sales people use on average 17
tools something like that well obviously
it could be 20 or five whatever I think
if sales per people would prefer to use
only one tool like necessary or if even
that
um
but uh I would really think about
uh the situation where you're at uh we
used to use hotspot for marketing
automation mostly and pipedrive for CRM
and then we migrated to HubSpot what we
what we're thinking about was so the
sort of future
so how do we want to run things uh in
the future so these things take time but
if you have like a if you have tools
that don't uh integrate well but there
are means of ways you know getting the
data from the system to another but if
you want to sort of start uh
from scratch in one way like combining
everything to one and I would really
think like what would be the ideal
scenario in a few years and what kind of
problems uh can we run into uh unless we
take we take good care of it everything
is well planned and thought through
for example if you're not collecting
some some data field of property or some
some data point from the beginning it
can really hurt you in the future
um
I don't know an example would be when a
customer visits a website or Prospect
visit your website so make sure you're
already you're measuring that as well
and that's in the CRM so you can see
like how many times they've been there
and which pages
um so
there's two options either either glue
them together or start from scratch and
really think what would be the sort of
Ideal scenario in the future yeah
because it's a painful thing right if
you've got a new CRM and you've got
quite a big size team
um if you've got a lot on your marketing
yourselves and various other departments
they're using it every day and then you
decide that you want to shift all the
data like it's not a quick job is it and
so it's something like you say you've
got a plan very carefully and make sure
the thing is as seamless as possible yes
if you want that if that's your goal
then I think that that and you want to
grow as a company I think that benefits
really outweigh the effort in the long
run
nice one well look Emma really
appreciate you coming on the show thanks
for sharing your ideas insights and some
really useful tips when it comes to CRM
utilizing data being data driven and
using it all to your advantage of your
marketing and your sales force so with
that said please do share more about
have one tuning in can learn from you
connect with you anything you'd like to
point our audience to
thank you
excellent hey you can connect with me on
LinkedIn on that hustle and uh obviously
if you want to try out Rhino we talked a
lot about company data uh enriching your
CRM obviously vinyl helps with that a
lot so you can go to volano.com
and we do offer a free trial so if you
fill the form we'll meet with you we'll
set it up and you can see how the data
would work for you yourself
nice one sir and we'll put all of those
links on the show notes over at
businessgrowth dot marketing and with
that I want to thank you once again for
coming on the show
thank you always a pleasure
cheers man and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode be sure to hit that
subscribe button or if you're on the
audio podcast a quick rating or review
goes a really long way and with that
we'll catch you on the next one for more
actionable no BS B2B marketing tips grow
your business and grow your Revenue
cheers for tuning in